

## {{ page["post"] }}

*Posted on <!--{ page["date"] }-->.*

#### Tags: Gastroparesis, Depression, Anxiety, Invisible Illness, Mental Illness, Mental Health, Chronic Illness, Recurring Dreams, Nightmares,

I haven't posted here in a while, and the reason for that is that I've been trying to get into a more positive head-space. And for some reason, I was thinking that head-space meant I shouldn't sit on my blog and bitch and moan and complain about my life all the time. But the thing with that is I have depression, and depression doesn't just go away with a positive outlook and a happy smile. Nor, as it turns out, does anxiety.

Now, I'm not here to moan and complain today. I'm here to reason through a problem I've been having in my recovery efforts. When I talk about recovery, I have to be very careful, because there are still people in my life who think I mean 100% recovery. Like, everything goes away, my life returns to the way it was, I am completely healthy and free of mental and physical illness, and all is well. 

That's not what recovery is for people like me.

It took me a long time to understand that I will never be completely healthy again, so I try not to fault people who still don't understand it. I do fault people who pretend I'm not actually sick, and people who say "oh God will eventually heal you", and I'll tell you why. Both of those thoughts rely heavily on denial and, in some cases, ableism. Oh no, I said an 'ism' word, alert the media and the 'Blue Lives Matter'/'Not All Men' crowds. Yes, I said ableism. And I don't really care about the intention behind either of those thoughts anymore because, deep down, both rest on the belief that everyone can be cured and no one is ever sick for their entire lives. They rely on disabilities being fake, the belief that all humans are equal, and society is a completely fair place for everyone. 

And none of those things are true.

And I don't care who you are in my life or in this world, if you believe any of those things you are either stupid or lying to yourself or maliciously ignoring the struggles of chronically ill and disabled people around you. And that means I don't like you. You are dangerous to me and people like me, no matter why you think what you think. You are going to take that mindset out into the world and teach it to your children and vote for your politicians and talk to your friends and all the little sheep are going to herd together and decide those things are right and everything is wonderful and good in the world. Whether or not your intentions are good, that is ableism, and it is dangerous and harmful.

You. Are. Wrong.

I will scream it again and again if it will change the minds of the people in the world who want to ignore me and my struggles. I will never get better. I will always be sick. I will be reliant on medications and medical procedures and devices my entire life. My life-span is shorter. My abilities are lessened. Forever. God is not going to heal me. There will be no miracle, there will be no recovery. Stop talking about it like it's just a metter of time. It will never happen for me and the millions of people like me.

If I seem angry, it's because I am. 

I have had Gastroparesis for five years. Until recently, I thought that the stomach issues brought on the mental health issues. It seemed to make sense as far as the timeline goes. GP symptoms started in June of 2013, and I'm not sure when the depression and anxiety happened but I was officially diagnosed in July of 2015. And it makes total sense that spending two years unable to eat while my doctors twiddled their thumbs and told me they didn't know what was wrong that at some point I would have developed depression and anxiety. But here's the thing. I've been seeing a therapist for the last couple of months, and the more we talk, the more I think back to my upbringing and how I was as a child and the more I started thinking maybe these issues were there all along. But he didn't say anything about it and I'm no psychologist, so I sort of kept it to myself and let the thoughts percolate for a bit.

Two weeks ago, I told my therapist about my recurring nightmares. We were talking about my anxiety and the things that I am afraid of. The cause was the earthquake we had around then and the beginning of the ongoing volcanic eruption in Hawaii. At some point I casually mentioned my complete and irrational fear of tsunamis. He found this fear interesting since we don't get those here and asked me to elaborate. That was when I told him about the recurring tsunami nightmare I've been having since I was about six. He asked some follow-up detail questions and then got really quiet and thoughtful for a moment. And then he asked if I have anymore. So I told him about the hallway dream, and the wolf dream, and the falling dream, and described a few others that I have here and there but haven't named yet. The whole time he just kinda sat in his chair with his hand on his chin and nodded and occasionally asked questions but was generally just really quiet and pensive, which is strange for him. When I finished he established the timeline of these dreams, going back to the tsunami dream, which was the first, and then he kinda dropped a bomb on me.

These are all textbook anxiety dreams.

Not just stress dreams or nightmares. From the book indicators of multiple anxiety disorders. And I've been having them since I was six.

You may not understand why this revelation made me explode into a fiery ball of fury surrounding denial and abelism, so let's shall we go back to young blonde pigtailed Amy. We moved from the house we lived in when I was born to a new location when I was three. At that time my younger brother and I were young enough that if we had a bad dream, my parents would let us crawl into their bed and spend the rest of the night in protected parental arms. Bad dreams weren't common for me at that point, so it was a pretty infrequent occurrence. I started school when I was four, and my nightmares picked up a bit. I was crawling in with my parents quite frequently by the time I hit first grade at five. At six, my father deemed me too old to be crying about nightmares, and said that I was no longer allowed to come into their room at night after I'd had a bad dream. At that point, they were still just bad dreams to me. They didn't recur, I usually didn't remember them, and I wasn't having them every night. Five to six was also when I started first grade, when I began getting bullied, and when I began to learn that little pigtailed Amy wasn't well-liked among her peers.

This was when the tsunami dream started.

So there's a thing about the tsunami dream that I didn't really explain in my [previous blog post about my nightmares](https://www.thelifeoffetzig.com/blog.2017-04-24.Dreams.html). When I have one of these dreams and I wake up from it, I don't really go back to sleep. I tend to lay awake in bed and maybe watch TV and I might slip back to sleep for a bit, but it's not a really deep sleep and I'm not rested in the morning. That's how I differentiate them from other nightmares. It's not that they recur and I recognize them, it's that they fuck me for the night and they always have. So imagine with me, if you will, that you are a parent. You have a young daughter who started school early, who has been complaining about bullies at school, who doesn't want to go to school or her after school daycare, and who now is losing sleep and talking about having nightmares every night. What would you do? Want to know what my parents did? They ignored the situation. They told me that if I ignored the bullies they would go away, that I'm too old for nightmares, and that if they caught me with my TV on at night again they would take it away.

I try really hard not to be angry at my parents for the way they raised us. They were lower middle class, both working full time, and raising three kids. When I say they did the best they could, I generally mean it. They did what they thought was right, and operated under the rules for raising children that they thought were good. The problem is that they were not prepared for a child who from a young age presented symptoms of an anxiety disorder. We can talk about my depression another day, because that happened in high school, but the anxiety was there from the beginning. And maybe I could shake it off and forgive if it just took them some time to realize there was a problem, but that's not what happened. To this day, my parents don't believe I have anxiety problems. My dad tells me I don't need medication to control my emotions and my mom tells me that she will pray for God to help me deal with my problems.

Did you notice how those two view points line up with the ones I mentioned above? Good. Now I'm going to tell you about the big bad 'ism': ableism. Let's start with the people who think I'm not actually sick. These people tend to all circle around to the same argument, no matter how they started. This argument centers around believing that mental illness isn't a thing. These are the people who repost those memes on facebook that say pills aren't antidepressants and depressed people just need to go out into nature or something and they'll feel all better. My favorite one is a woman who recently claimed that all of the school shootings that have been happening in America are a result of antidepressants and people need to stop getting on these dangerous pills because they mess with your head and make you go out and shoot people. These people believe that the pills are either more harmful than the illness, or don't actually do anything and no one needs them. People who take medications for mental illness are being conned by doctors, those sneaky bastards. This is dangerous, because this type of person will look at me and say, "You're only sick because you take those pills. Stop taking pills and your body will go back to normal." Nevermind that the illness came long before the pills, and the pills make me feel better. I am not actually sick at all, no one is. We all need to stop relying on doctors. People in wheelchairs don't actually need them, they're just being lazy. Vaccines are the cause of the recent up tick in autism diagnoses. Depressed people just need to suck it up. That guy who killed himself just wanted attention. Need I go on?

The ableism in this thought process come when these type of people truly believe the things they're spouting. Someone who truly believes a wheelchair user doesn't need their chair because they can walk sometimes will truly believe that wheelchair accessible spaces are unnecessary. If you truly believe that your depressed child doesn't need the pills their doctor prescribed them, you will throw them away and you child will turn to more harmful means to feel better. It is ableism in its truest form. No one is actually sick, no one needs these special accommodations, let's do away with all of them.

The "God will heal you" crowd are less confrontational than the "you're not sick" crowd, but their ableism is just as dangerous. They are dangerous because they are more likable. They hide their discrimination behind loving lines like "God never gives you more than you can handle" and "All you need to do is pray and God will take away your pain." There are some that tell you your illness is God punishing you, but I don't see them as this type of harmful because they at least accept that you are disabled and ill. Acceptance is the key here, and people who are waiting for God to magically heal me aren't accepting the here and now that is my mental and chronic illness. That is harmful because they then won't plan for it. They will invite their paralyzed friend to a bar that isn't wheelchair accessible and then apologize profusely and have to scramble last-second to be accommodating. They will invite their friend with celiac to Thanksgiving dinner where the only safe thing to eat is the mashed potatoes and then everyone will be embarrassed and the friend will go hungry. This is still ableism despite it's good intentions. This type of person wants you to be better so they can go back to not being inconvenienced by your illness. They don't want to plan for a person who can't climb stairs or a friend who can't drink alcohol. They want you to be magically better so everything will go back to normal and, ultimately, all the accessibility necessities aren't needed anymore.

Which brings me back around to recovery and why I'm angry. I am not working with a therapist weekly in the hopes that my anxiety and depression will one day vanish and I will no longer have to deal with them. They are here. They have always been here. But my parents didn't believe in them, and I didn't get the help I needed, and now everything is worse. I am starting much further back from the finish line. And the finish line isn't lack of anxiety. When I am finished with therapy I will still have the anxiety dreams and the depression thoughts, I will just know how to identify and deal with them before they take over. I have a long way to go before I reach that finish line, and even at the end, I will have people telling me that God fixed it or that I wasn't really sick and my ability to cope proves it. 

It is dangerous. It is harmful. It is heartless. And it is killing us.